# Improve Your Chances for Success by Coming to Class Every Day

Being present is important to success in this class. Research has found that *just showing up to class* is a better way to tell if you will do well in your college classes than anything else, including how you might have done in high school [(Crede, Roch, and Kieszczynka, 2010)](http://rer.sagepub.com/content/80/2/272.short). This class is very collaborative and you will often be working in teams: your teammates depend on you. Attendance will be taken at every class, both as a way to help me learn your names and as a way to help you stay on track with attendance.

I also understand that life happens and sometimes you might need to miss class. Some acceptable reasons to miss class include family emergencies, car troubles break down, icy or snowy roads, or illness. Some not acceptable reasons to miss class include oversleeping, conflict with outside jobs (coaching a youth team is considered an "outside job"), or the I don't feel like going to class excuse. Keep an open line of communications with me about your absences from this class. If you need to miss class, please *notify me directly by email*. Although I would prefer to be notified ahead of time of your absence, if you have an excuse for your absence you have 24 hours after class to notify me. I will notice patterns of absences - unexcused *and* excused - and I will call you on it because I want to do everything I can to help you succeed.

##Building Trust: "Ooops!" Days

You might forget me to send me an email, so **each student in the course receives two "Ooops!" days.** Each unexcused absence beyond your two "Ooops!" days will result in 50 points taken off your final grade for the course.\marginnote{If you earned an B in the course but had two unexcused absences beyond your two "Ooops!" days, you will receive a C for your final grade.} *If you need to be excused from class for an extended period of time} for a particular reason, **you must speak to me outside of class*** (such as during my drop-in hours, or if you can't come at those times, schedule an appointment with me) so that we can work out a way for you to participate in the structure and activities of the course.

The most important thing is to *keep an open line of communications open* with me: I am here to help you succeed. I recognize that students are required to miss class for many different reasons. The important thing to remember is to keep an open line of communications with me so your grade is not adversely affected.