# "How Did It Get So Late So Soon?"

The title for this section is a quote from the inestimable Dr. Seuss. College can be challenging in terms of organizing your time to get everything done. You may be on your own for the first (or second or third) time, and you are still getting used to the lack of structure that academic life brings. You might be involved on campus with clubs, activities, and leadership opportunities that demand your attention and time (good for you!). You may work part- or full-time (or more) in addition to going to classes. You might have parenting for family obligations that you have to fit your school work around.

Working with students (and having experienced a busy and obligation-filled academic career myself), I have learned that communication, attendance, and sustained effort (that means you, procrastinators and last-minuters!) are the most effective ways to get everything done well and on time. This is the rationale behind many of the policies that are a part of this course as outlined in the syllabus.

In order to help you keep track of upcoming classes and assignments, in addition to the detailed schedule in the syllabus (which includes the generative topics and understanding goals as well), **Things are set up by date in TaskStream.**

**Once you have added the course calendar to your own, you can use Google calendar to set reminders for yourself, to remind you of upcoming assignments and class sessions. See “How To Create Reminders for Events in Google Calendar” (http://bit.ly/JABrpq) on the FreeTech4Teachers blog.**

##Setting Up a Master Schedule
One thing to remember is that you have pockets of time during the day. You do not have to wait until the evening to work on projects or get some reading done. Grabbing an hour or two during the day between classes or between class and work can sometimes make all the difference.
One way to find these times is to adopt the practice of creating a weekly master schedule. Sit down with a weekly calendar set up at half-hour intervals (such as the one on the following pages) and write in all of your responsibilities, such as class time, eating time, work time, family time, activity time, and don’t forget about exercise time. You should see open blocks of time in between these obligations. In these blocks of time, write down tasks for classes that you need to accomplish, such as reading, writing, editing, creating, etc. And hold yourself accountable to doing these tasks during these times.
I am more than happy to sit down with you to help you set up your first master schedule. Just send me an email to set up an appointment or come to my office during Student Drop-In Hours. If you are consistently late with your assignments or if you miss some assignments, I will ask you to visit me and we will construct a master schedule together. 
